For CS F241 at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Due May 2, 2025. By Ian Rodriguez and Jacob Odom.

The purpose of the program was to expand on the ideas in the music synthesis lecture and attempt to make a circuit that can play instrumental songs with recognition of note frequency and duration. It attempts to work like an mobile audio player that can both save audio from the user and play it back to them. No code was used from the lecture notes except for the frequencies for an A minor scale listed as an array. The program has to be user-friendly in both inputs and outputs.

The project is minimalist in terms of hardware: a passive Piezo buzzer was used to play the notes, with two wires connecting to power (pin A0) and ground, respectively, on an Arduino Uno. An OLED display was at one point considered, but not implemented due to issue with the baud rate, reliable feedback, and dissonance between having Serial inputs but outputs elsewhere. Initially the program was going to read notes from a .txt file, but this didn't seem possible with Arduino, unlike every other IDE.

In terms of software, the program works off of a Note class and a Song struct. The user has to enter a note on an A minor scale, followed by how many milliseconds it should play for; any separation between notes (for playing or saving a song) has to be delimited with commas or dashes. An object of the Note class is then created for each Note, with each note label correlating to a frequency that plays on the buzzer. When playing a series of notes, the program loops between all the Note objects. The Song struct contains the song name, a boolean on whether the song is premade ("Hot Cross Buns" and "Happy Birthday" in the published program), and then the note data; the data type is different depending on whether the song is custom or premade due to memory issues. The user has the ability to save note sequences as custom songs with the SAVE SONG <notes w/ duration, delimited> command, which gets them saved to the songLibrary alongside the premade ones. These can be retrieved with the PLAY SONG <song #> command. Every single input has to be trimmed to adjust for any additonal whitespace, as well as to get to important data once the original command (PLAY/SAVE SONG) is already registered.

The program should be run on an Arduino IDE, with the hardware setup described in the second paragraph.
